# Quick Start

The Racine project is a wireless network monitoring platform based on Mininet, Ryu, and D-ITG.
This quick start guide will help you get started with the Racine project on your system.

## Installation

1. Clone the Racine project repository from GitHub:

   ```shell
   git clone https://github.com/MAG-ENCRYPTION/Racine-Project
   ```

2. Navigate to the project directory:

   ```shell
   cd Racine-Project
   ```


## Launching the Project

Follow the steps below to launch the Racine project:

### Running the Project

1. **Open Two Terminal Windows:**
   - Press `Ctrl+Alt+T` to open a terminal.
   - Repeat to open a second terminal.

2. **Switch to Superuser Mode:**
   - In both terminals, enter: `sudo su`
   - Enter your system password when prompted.

3. **Navigate to the Project Directory:**
   - In both terminals, navigate to the project directory: `cd ~/Racine-Project/src`

4. **Start the Classifier:**
   - In the first terminal, run the classifier script:
     ```bash
     python3 wifi_classifier2.py <model_type>
     ```
     - Replace `<model_type>` with either `"unsupervised"` or `"supervised"` depending on the chosen classification model.

5. **Start the Mininet Topology:**
   - In the second terminal, launch the Mininet topology script:
     ```bash
     python3 wifi_AP_ST_TOPO.py
     ```

6. **Open Xterm Windows:**
   - In the second terminal, enter: `xterm h1 h2`
   - This will open two xterm windows, one for host `h1` and one for host `h2`.
   - You can change the hosts by entering `dump` in the Mininet terminal to view all available devices.
   - For a comprehensive understanding of Mininet, Ryu, and OpenFlow, refer to the document: `~/Racine-Project/documents/TP_4GI_SD_WMN.pdf`

7. **Generate Traffic:**
   - In the xterm window for `h2`, enter: `ITGRecv -l recv.log`
   - In the xterm window for `h1`, enter: `ITGSend -t 15000 -a 10.0.0.2 -rp 10003 DNS`
   - This will generate DNS traffic from `h1` (10.0.0.1) to `h2` (10.0.0.2).

8. **Observe and Analyze:**
   - Monitor the traffic flow and analyze the results using the classifier's output and the logs generated by D-ITG.